# Extension Documentation

* [base](base.md) the core engine.
* [core.config_persistence.api](core.config_persistence.api.md) User Configuration Sub-System.
* [core.extensions.api](core.extensions.api.md) General, public, extensions API.
* [core.hotkeys.api](core.hotkeys.api.md) Standard API for registering hotkeys that perform generate events.
* [core.hotkeys.binding](core.hotkeys.binding.md) Petronia Core Hotkey Bindings.
* [core.layout.api](core.layout.api.md) Basic events generated by layouts.
* [core.layout.binding](core.layout.binding.md) Petronia Layout Hotkey Bindings.
* [core.platform.api](core.platform.api.md) API that the platform components must implement.


This defines what is expected from the platform runtime implementation.
* [core.shutdown.api](core.shutdown.api.md) API for the system shutdown process.
* [core.state.api](core.state.api.md) Standard API for the state.
* [core.theme.api](core.theme.api.md) Basic UI theme support.
* [core.timer.api](core.timer.api.md) Timer heartbeat event api.
* [core.validation.api](core.validation.api.md) The validation API.
* [default.config_persistence](default.config_persistence.md) Default Implementation.
* [default.extensions](default.extensions.md) Default extension implementations.  Several are available for differentrequirements.  Due to the nature of extension loaders, they should only becreated and configured once at startup, and thus do not need the normalextension definitions.  However, the definitions should still be providedfor proper integration into the extension API.
* [default.hotkeys](default.hotkeys.md) A hotkey handler, which acts as a broker between services and thelow-level platform hotkey events.
* [default.state](default.state.md) Implementation of the state store extension.
* [default.timer](default.timer.md) (no documentation provided)
* [default.validation](default.validation.md) The Validation implementation.
* [default.configuration.file](default.configuration.file.md) Extension configuration through files.
* [default.layout.tile](default.layout.tile.md) The Petronia tiling extension.
* [default.logging.console](default.logging.console.md) Console-based logging.
* [default.platform.windows](default.platform.windows.md) Provides the low-level platform API implementation for the Windows operating system.
* [default.shutdown.timer](default.shutdown.timer.md) Sends a halt message after a time is exceeded in either a total time ora quiet period with no events.
* [default.theme.wrench](default.theme.wrench.md) The Wrench Theme.  It's not pretty, but it does all kinds of work.


*This file was auto-generated from the Petronia source on 2019-Oct-24.*
